# Stocks and their Valuation, and Stock Market Efficiency
## Stocks and their Valuation
* **Common stock values** can be determined with the **Discounted Dividend Model**:
    * Stocks with constant growth
    * Stocks with non-constant growth

* They can also be determined using **multiples** of **comparable firms**.

**Preferred Stocks** are stocks that entitles the holder to a **fixed dividend**, whose payment takes priority over that of ordinary share dividends.

### Returns from Investing in Stocks
* **Returns**: Shareholders share in the profits through **dividends** and **stock price appreciation** (*capital gains*)  
    Sometimes shareholders also suffer losses when the stock price falls (*capital loss*)

### Intrinsic Value and Stock Price
$\mathbb{P}_0$ - Intrinsic Value  
Outside investors, corporate insiders, and analysts use a variety of approaches to estimate a stock's intrinsic value.

In **equilibrium**, we assume that a stock's market price equals its intrinsic value.
* Outsiders estimate intrinsic value to help determine which stocks are attractive to buy/sell  
* Stocks are either *undervalued* or *overvalued*.

## Discounted Dividend Model
Value of a stock is the **PV** of the future dividends expected to be generated by the stock.

A **Constant Growth Stock** is a stock whose dividends are expected to grow **forever** at a constant rate, $g$.  
If $g$ is constant, the **discounted dividend formula** converges to:  
$P_0 = \frac{D_0(1+g)}{r_s-g}=\frac{D_1}{r_s-g}$
> The reduced formula is upon $D_1$ and not $D_0$.  

> If $g>r_s$, the constant growth formula leads to a negative stock price, which does not make sense.  
> Hence, the constant growth model can only be used if:
> * $r_s>g$
> * $g$ is expected to grow forever

## Question Of the Week
Suppose you bought Stock E one year ago.
Stock E is expected to pay an end-of-year
dividend, D1, of $2.00 per share, which is
expected to grow at a constant rate over time.
The stock has a required return of 14% and a
dividend yield, D1/P0, of 5%. What is the
expected price of the stock five years from
today?
